# SYSMON CONFIGURATION
[Download Sysmon](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Sysmon.zip)
This can be done using the below PowerShell commands
```powershell
[Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12
(New-Object -TypeName System.Net.WebClient).downloadFile("https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Sysmon.zip", "$env:USERPROFILE\Downloads\Sysmon.zip")
Expand-Archive -Path "$env:USERPROFILE\Downloads\Sysmon.zip" -Destination "C:\Sysmon\"
```
This page is used to set up [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) logging in your environment. There are numerous benefits to this extra logging. You are able to view more information associated with events and processes than you normally would using the event viewer. I view this logging as a great extra to be doing and am attempting to encourage this logging. When used in combination with [MaliciousIPChecker.ps1](https://github.com/tobor88/BTPS-SecPack/blob/master/Sysmon/MaliciousIPChecker.ps1) we will be able to analyze any IP connections a client device establishes and determine whether or not the connection has occurred to a safe or unsafe IP address. This is going to be utilized with the WEF Application in this repository as well. An event will be created and forwarded to the WEF Application which will then send an email alert thanks to the file [SQL-Query-Suspicious-Events.ps1](https://github.com/tobor88/BTPS-SecPack/blob/master/WEF%20Application/SQL-Query-Suspicous-Events.ps1)

# FILE OVERVIEW
- __Eula.txt__ This is the user license agreement for sysmon
- __HashValidator.ps1__ This script is used to compare the hashes of Sysmon collected Processes and compares them against a Whitelist of known processes. It then compares hashes not on the whitelist to Virus Totals database and logs the previously unknown process to a custom event log entry in Windows Event Viewer called "Hash Validations"
- __HashValidator.xml__ This is a file that can be imported into Task Scheduler to create the scheduled task that validates Process hashes once an hour.
- __Install-SysmonBTPSSecPack.ps1__ This is a script that can be run on a domains Primary Domain Controller. It is for the install of sysmon only. It will download the needed files from the BTPS Sec Pack GitHub repo that deal with sysmon. A network share will be created to host the sysmon install files for domain joined devices. Instructions are provided in the script as well containing info on how to created the GPO that installs sysmon. The GPO can not be made in PowerShell unfortunately or I would have done that too. You will also be asked if you want to download HashValidator and MaliciousIPChecker task and script files as well. Install-SysmonBTPSSecPack.ps1 does not cover how to add that to group policy. More info on how to configure those can be seen at [https://btps-secpack.com/sysmon-setup](https://btps-secpack.com/sysmon-setup)
- __sysmon.bat__ This is a start up script that will copy the sysmon.xml configuration file to a local location and use it set up your [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) configuration. This will require you to add the name of your Domain Controller. __NOTE:__ On your domain controller you will need to place the files sysmon.exe, Eula.txt, sysmon.bat, and sysmon.xml inside the network share \\\\<YourDCHere.domain.com>\\NETLOGON\\
- __sysmon.exe__ This is the [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) executable terminal application that is used to enable and start the [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) process
- __sysmon.xml__ This is the configuration file used as the starting point for this [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) configuration. Feel free to better customize this to your environment.
- __MaliciousIPChecker.ps1__ This is the PowerShell script that is used to execute against a list a sysmon connections from the last hour.
__REFERENCE:__ [https://github.com/SwiftOnSecurity/sysmon-config/blob/master/sysmonconfig-export.xml](https://github.com/SwiftOnSecurity/sysmon-config/blob/master/sysmonconfig-export.xml)
- __MaliciousIPChecker.xml__ This is a file that can be imported into Task Scheduler to create the scheduled task that checks for malicious IP address connections once an hour.
- __Whitelist.csv__ This is a starter list containing the File Name and MD5 hash of known safe Window Processes. Information on how this file was created as well as the PowerShell commands used to create the file can be found in HashValidator.ps1

## SETUP INSTRUCTIONS
__REFERENCE:__ [Link to Resource](https://www.syspanda.com/index.php/2017/02/28/deploying-sysmon-through-gpo/#:~:text=Launch%20your%20group%20policy%20utility%20and%20perform%20the,here%20Provide%20a%20name%20%28Sysmon%20Deployment%29%2C%20hit%20OK) <br>
The above link contains the instructions that can be followed to set up [Sysmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon) in your environment.
Instead of following the below steps you can simply run the Install-SysmonBTPSSecPack.ps1 script in this module. It will download the files for you and create your network share.
<br> __Step 1.)__ On your domain controller you will need to place the files sysmon.exe, Eula.txt, sysmon.bat, and sysmon.xml inside the network share \\\\<YourDCHere.domain.com>\\NETLOGON\\
<br> __Step 2.)__ In the sysmon.bat script you will need to change "DomainControllerHostname" on lines 2 and 16 so it is the hostname of your Domain Controller that is hosting these files
<br> __Step 3.)__ Create a group policy item under "__Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings > Scripts > Startup__" and define the Batch script location as \\yourddc.domain.com\apps\sysmon.bat and apply the policy to any devices you want this type of logging enabled on
<br> __Step 4.)__ Create a scheduled task to push out through Group Policy that executes the PowerShell Script [MaliciousIPChecker.ps1](https://github.com/tobor88/BTPS-SecPack/blob/master/Sysmon/MaliciousIPChecker.ps1) once an hour. This will check the sysmon logs for event Id 3 which is an established network connection event. All the IP addresses from the last hour will be checked. If they are on more than one blacklist or the domain creation date is older than 2 years the information will be added into Event Viewer under MaliciousIPs. These events also get forwarded to the WEF Application and are sent in the email alert with subject "SUSPICIOUS EMAIL ALERTS" whenever discovered.

## How Does MaliciousIPCheckerWork?
This works by pulling any network connections made from the Sysmon logs. It then extracts the IP addresses that were connected too and saves the results to C:\Windows\Temp\SysmonEvents.txt. To save to this location your task will need to be running as someone with "__Administrator__" permissions as well as "__Run as batch job__" permissions. I recommend of course using a Code Signing Certificate to sign this script while it is running as a Task to prevent an attacker from trying to use it for Privilege Escalation. With the task running once an hour and the last hour of sysmon logs being checked you should be able to check the majority of IP address connections if not all of them. Any IP addresses on more than one blacklist or who resolve to a domain that is less than two years old will be recorded and you will be alerted. These events are sent to the centralized WEF collector to be included in the Suspicous Alerts trigger for admin review.

## How Does HashValidator.ps1 Work?
This requires a Virus Total API, a whitelist.csv file which I include in the package containing file names and hashes of known safe files/processes. It creates a custom event log entry called "Hash Validations" which is used to log process information on hashes not found in the whitelisted database that also return 1 or more positive results from Virus Total. Sysmon logs Event ID 1 for Process info which includes the command executed, the process, and MD5 and and IMPHASH if the BTPS Sec Config is used. The MD5 hashes are compared against a whitelist. If they are on the whitelist the hash is ignored and it moves on to the next one. If an MD5 hash is not on the whitelist it is verified against Virus Totals database. If 1 or more results are found for the hash in Virus Total than the custom event log entry is created. These events are sent to the centralized WEF collector to be included in the Suspicous Alerts trigger for admin review.

### SIGN SCRIPT WITH CERT
```powershell
# Sign the script with your code signing cert using the below command. Request one if needed at certmgr.msc
Set-AuthenticodeSignature C:\Path\To\MaliciousIPChecker.ps1 @(Get-ChildItem Cert:\CurrentUser\My -CodeSigningCertificate)[0]
```
