## Disclaimer of Warranty
This Work is provided "as is". Any express or implied warranties, including but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall OsbornePro LLC. be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services, loss of use, data or profits, or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this Work, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

The User of this Work agrees to hold harmless and indemnify OsbornePro LLC., its agents and employees from every claim or liability (whether in tort or in contract), including attorneys' fees, court costs, and expenses, arising in direct consequence of Recipient's use of the item, including but not limited to, claims or liabilities made for injury to or death of personnel of User or third parties, damage to or destruction of property of User or third parties, infringement or other violations of intellectual property or technical data rights.

Nothing in this Work is intended to constitute an endorsement, explicit or implied, by OsbornePro LLC. of any particular manufacturer's product or service.

## Disclaimer of Endorsement
Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, in this Work does not constitute an endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by OsbornePro LLC. and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

## Note From the Author
In essence this package can improve visibility into a domain environment and help identify certain compromises within 15 minutes or less. This should not be viewed as and end all be all solution that is able to identify every possible security incident or compromise. There is no such thing as a tool that can make that claim. I suggest following my setup instructions and using the Installer.ps1 script I created to ensure the best implementation possible. The Installer.ps1 script deploys the tasks that are used to identify possible security incidents. It also sets the permissions on the executed scripts to ensure least privilege is applied. It then checks to see if you have a code signing certificate and will use prompts to try and ensure you use one. I was not able to sign every script because they have email alerts that require custom modifications for your enviornment.. 
